Edge auto register (#1129)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04-clusters/03-edge/02-native.md

<InfoBox>

The community resource, Painting with Palette has a great Edge Native [tutorial](https://www.paintingwithpalette.com/tutorials/basic/edge_native/) available.

</InfoBox>

## Setup Device

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

3. Create a cluster profile of the type **infrastructure** or **full** with **Edge Native** as the cloud type by providing the following layers. To learn more about creating a cluster profile, refer to the [Create Cluster Profile](/cluster-profiles/task-define-profile) documentation.
   - Optionally, consider creating additional profiles with out-of-the-box packs for monitoring, security, authentication, or other capabilities as desired. If remote access to the cluster is desired, consider adding the [Spectro Proxy](/integrations/frp) pack to one of the add-on profiles.

   -  Optionally, add additional Helm or OCI registries and include applications hosted in those registries into add-on profiles. Check out the guide for adding a [Helm](/registries-and-packs/helm-charts) or [OCI](/registries-and-packs/oci-registry) registry to learn more.

> 4. Create a configuration file for the Edge device. The configuration file is composed of three sections; `site`, `reboot`, `stages`, and `install`. Review the following parameters to better understand each section.

Author: It's `stages` in the configuration file, so it's correct.

12. Review and save the cluster configuration.

After creating the cluster, the Palette Edge Host agent will start the installation by constantly polling the management console for information. You can track the progress of the installation in the Palette Management Console. The cluster overview page shows a summary of the progress, while the events tab displays detailed orchestration logs.

## Validation 

You can validate your cluster is up and running by reviewing the cluster details page. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Clusters**. The **Clusters** page contains a list of all available clusters managed by Palette. Click on the row for the cluster you wish to review its details page. Ensure the **Cluster Status** field contains the value **Running**.

# Delete an Edge Native Cluster

The deletion of an Edge Native cluster results in the removal of all instances and associated resources created for the cluster. To perform a cluster deletion, use the following steps. 

1. Ensure you are in the correct project scope.

> 2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Clusters**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click **Clusters**

```

> 3. Click on the cluster that you want to remove.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the cluster you want to delete.

```

> 4. Click on the **Settings** drop-down menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click the **Settings drop-down Menu**.

```

> 5. Click on **Delete Cluster**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click **Delete Cluster**.

```

> 6. Type in the name of the cluster and click on **OK**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Type the name of the cluster and click **OK**

```

> The cluster status is updated to **Deleting** while cluster resources are being deleted. Once all resources are successfully deleted, the cluster status is updated to **Deleted** and is removed from the list of clusters. The delete operation returns the edge hosts to the **Ready** state. All the artifacts related to the Kubernetes distribution are removed. After the delete process, the edge hosts are available for deployment to a new cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cluster status is updated to **Deleting** while cluster resources are being deleted. When all resources are successfully deleted, the cluster status is updated to **Deleted** and the cluster is removed from the list. The delete operation returns the edge hosts to the **Ready** state. All the artifacts related to the Kubernetes distribution are removed. After the delete process, the edge hosts are available for deployment to a new cluster.

```
